.\" Process this file with: groff -man -Tascii brickd.8
.TH BRICKD 8 2014-01-30 Tinkerforge
.\" Turn off justification for nroff. Always turn off hyphenation.
.if n .ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
brickd \- Tinkerforge Brick Daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B brickd
[--help|--version|--check-config|--daemon] [--debug] [--libusb-debug]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B brickd
program is part of the Tinkerforge software infrastructure. It routes
Tinkerforge Protocol (TFP) messages between Tinkerforge USB devices (Bricks)
and TCP/IP sockets. This allows user programs to use TCP/IP sockets to
communicate with Bricks and their Bricklets connected to USB without having to
deal with USB themselves. The TCP/IP communicate itself is encapsulated in API
bindings available for various programming languages.
.PP
Bricks connected to USB are identified using their vendor ID (16D0) and product
ID (063D).
.PP
By default, brickd binds to 0.0.0.0 (IPv4) and listens on port 4223 for
incoming TCP/IP connections. The bind address (IPv4 or IPv6), listen port and
dual-stack operation can be configured in the configuration file.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "\fB\-\-help\fR" 4
Print help for command line options and exit.
.IP "\fB\-\-version\fR" 4
Print version number and exit.
.IP "\fB\-\-check-config\fR" 4
Check configuration file for errors, print the result and exit.
.IP "\fB\-\-daemon\fR" 4
Run as daemon and write PID and log file.
.IP "\fB\-\-debug\fR" 4
Set all log levels to debug, overriding configuration file values.
.IP "\fB\-\-libusb-debug\fR" 4
Enable libusb log output. Only works if libusb was compiled with log output
enabled.
.SH SIGNALS
On reception of
.B SIGUSR1
brickd will scan for added or removed USB devices. This is only useful if brickd
has no other means to detect USB hotplug on its own. That is the case if brickd
was compiled without libudev support and is using a libusb-1.0 version without
hotplug support (libusb-1.0 before 1.0.16).
.SH FILES
.SS "When run as \fBroot\fP"
.IP "\fI/etc/brickd.conf\fR" 4
The system wide configuration file. See
.IR brickd.conf (5)
for further details.
.IP "\fI/var/log/brickd.log\fR" 4
Per system wide log file.
.IP "\fI/var/run/brickd.pid\fR" 4
Per system wide PID file.
.SS "When run as \fBnon-root\fP"
.IP "\fI~/.brickd/brickd.conf\fR" 4
Per user configuration file. See
.IR brickd.conf (5)
for further details.
.IP "\fI~/.brickd/brickd.log\fR" 4
Per user log file.
.IP "\fI~/.brickd/brickd.pid\fR" 4
Per user PID file.
.SH BUGS
Please report all bugs you discover to
\fI\%https://github.com/Tinkerforge/brickd/issues\fR
.SH AUTHOR
Matthias Bolte <matthias@tinkerforge.com>
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 2012-2014 Matthias Bolte
.SH LICENSE
brickd is distributed under the terms of the GNU GPL v2+. This is free
software; see the source for copying conditions. There is NO warranty;
not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR brickd.conf (5)

For further information see \fI\%http://www.tinkerforge.com\fR
