.\" Process this file with: groff -man -Tascii brickd.conf.5
.TH BRICKD.CONF 5 2014-01-30 Tinkerforge
.\" Turn off justification for nroff. Always turn off hyphenation.
.if n .ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
brickd.conf \- brickd(8) configuration file
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I brickd.conf
file specifies the configuration for the
.BR brickd (8)
program that routes Tinkerforge Protocol (TFP) messages between Tinkerforge
USB devices (Bricks) and sockets; plain TCP/IP sockets and WebSockets are
supported. For further information see the
.BR brickd (8)
manpage.
.SH "FILE FORMAT"
The file is line-based, each newline-terminated line represents either a
comment or parameter of the form "name = value". Leading and trailing
whitespace on a line is ignored.

Any line beginning with a hash (#) is ignored. But a hash in the middle of a
line is used as-is, therefore it is not possible to put a comment at the end
of a parameter. The hash and following text becomes part of the parameter.

Only the first equals sign (=) in a parameter is significant. Whitespace before
or after the first equals sign is discarded. Leading and trailing whitespace in
a parameter name is ignored. Leading and trailing whitespace in parameter value
is discarded. Internal whitespace within a parameter value is used as-is.

The values following the equals sign in parameters are all either strings (no
quotes needed) or integers.
.SH PARAMETERS
.SS Network connectivity
The parameters with
.B listen
prefix control how
.BR brickd (8)
listens for incoming plain TCP/IP and WebSocket connections.
.IP "\fBlisten.address\fR" 4
.BR brickd (8)
binds a plain TCP/IP socket and a WebSocket to this address to listen for
incoming plain TCP/IP and WebSocket connections. The address can either be a
dotted-decimal IPv4 address or a hexadecimal IPv6 address. It can also be a
hostname such as \fIlocalhost\fR. The default value is \fI0.0.0.0\fR.
.IP "\fBlisten.plain_port\fR" 4
The port number to listen to for incoming plain TCP/IP connections. The default
value is \fI4223\fR.
.IP "\fBlisten.websocket_port\fR" 4
The port number to listen to for incoming WebSocket connections. The default
value is \fI0\fR (disabled). To enable WebSocket support a port number different
from 0 has to be configured. The recommended port number is 4280. It is also
strongly recommend to enable authentication if WebSocket support is enabled.
.IP "\fBlisten.dual_stack\fR" 4
If a IPv6 address is given as
.B listen.address
or the hostname given as
.B listen.address
gets resolved to a IPv6 address then this option controls if dual-stack mode
gets enabled (\fIon\fR) or disabled (\fIoff\fR) on the socket bound to that
address. The default value is \fIoff\fR.
.SS Network authentication
The Tinkerforge Protocol supports authentication on a per-connection basis.
By default authentication is disabled for backward compatibility. If it is
enabled then an IP Connection has to prove to
.BR brickd (8)
that it knows the authentication secret via a handshake mechanism, before it
can do any useful communication with Bricks and Bricklets.
.IP "\fBauthentication.secret\fR" 4
The authentication secret is an ASCII encoded string with up to 64 characters.
An empty secret means that authentication is disabled. If the secret is longer
than 64 characters then
.BR brickd (8)
will complain and refuse to start. The default value is empty (disabled).
.SS Log level per category
The log output of
.BR brickd (8)
is divided into different categories. The visibility of log messages can be
controlled individually for each category using the parameters with
.B log_level
prefix.

Valid values are \fIerror\fR, \fIwarn\fR, \fIinfo\fR and \fIdebug\fR. The
default value is \fIinfo\fR. It means that log messages on error, warn and
info level are shown, but messages on debug level are ignored. This can be
overridden with the
.B --debug
command line option of \fBbrickd\fR(8).
.IP "\fBlog_level.event\fR" 4
Controlls the visibility of log messages from the event subsystem.
.IP "\fBlog_level.usb\fR" 4
Controlls the visibility of log messages from the USB subsystem.
.IP "\fBlog_level.network\fR" 4
Controlls the visibility of log messages from the network subsystem.
.IP "\fBlog_level.hotplug\fR" 4
Controlls the visibility of log messages from the (USB) hotplug subsystem.
.IP "\fBlog_level.hardware\fR" 4
Controlls the visibility of log messages from the hardware subsystem.
.IP "\fBlog_level.websocket\fR" 4
Controlls the visibility of log messages from the WebSocket subsystem.
.IP "\fBlog_level.other\fR" 4
Controlls the visibility of log messages that do not fit into any of the
categories listed above.
.SH FILES
\fI/etc/brickd.conf\fR or \fI~/.brickd/brickd.conf\fR
.SH BUGS
Please report all bugs you discover to
\fI\%https://github.com/Tinkerforge/brickd/issues\fR
.SH AUTHOR
Matthias Bolte <matthias@tinkerforge.com>
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 2012-2014 Matthias Bolte
.SH LICENSE
brickd is distributed under the terms of the GNU GPL v2+. This is free
software; see the source for copying conditions. There is NO warranty;
not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR brickd (8)

For further information see \fI\%http://www.tinkerforge.com\fR
